we're gonna tie today is a midge larvae
pattern and I've I've done quite well on
it the last couple seasons out here in
the West on still waters and in tight
and smaller sizes dump has done pretty
well on some rivers as well too so
really simple pattern only takes a few
minutes to tie and we'll get right to it
I'm gonna start my thread here right
behind the hook I the hook I'm using is
a $24.99 s PBL super point barbless from
tmco very very strong hook and sharp as
well but if if the hooks not available
to you you can use any type of curved
scut herb shanks cut hook that works
just fine too as well so what I'm gonna
do is lay a thread base I'll take a
section of small silver wire I'll use
for my rib
and I'm going to tie this on the near
side of the books on my side of hook I'm
going to tie this in now with these
midge larvae you you know judging on
size you wouldn't really think that fish
are gonna heat eat this but
they are found in large numbers and in a
number of still waters and streams so
they are readily available to trout and
trowel enjoy them quite frequently so
also on the on the outsmarting fish blog
you'll see a picture of me and with a
pretty hefty rainbow and that that
rainbow took this fly so that should be
a testament in itself that big fish do
eat small flies such as these now this
is tied on a size six hook I'm doing
that just for for visibility's sake to
help you see my dive time and for still
waters I've I've tied them in you know
size eight down to sixteen done pretty
well and then on on rivers fourteen down
to two twenty two so
I'm just gonna build up a little bit of
a taper here and the thread I'm using is
Danville's six off unwaxed
just
I like the thread because of lays flat
on the on the shank and allows you to
build up super smooth bodies such as as
one needed for this fly nope
the next step will be to just spiral
wrap the wire I usually take one to two
turns down at the at the thread where I
where I ended the body and I'm just
gonna spiral wrap back up towards the
foci
once I'm back up where my were my yeah
my thread is behind hook I I'll just tie
off the wire and
going off without damaging my scissors
trying to cut that wire that's the best
way to to ruin your scissors is to cut
water with them and then five turn whip
finish
make sure that's seated in break it off
and then next up here I've got a
slightly used fingernail polish
container I don't know what you could I
don't use fingernail polish that much so
I don't know what you call a container
of fingernail polish but anyway it's a
sinful sinful colors professional in in
just a a translucent color with with
glitters on it and they use those this
these sinful colors because I like the
glitter in there and what it does when
it dries is it creates kind of a shiny
effect on on the bug and it looks it
looks
suggestive and shiny with the sparkly
flex in it
never thought I'd say that about nail
polish but the fish really really dig it
they love it and what I'm going to do
then is just let this fly dry and once
it's dry it it takes a couple minutes to
dry once it's dry it's ready to fish so
try it out see how many fish you can you
can feed with it this year and and there
you go
Mitch larvae simple creations